---
title: Proteogenomic insights suggest druggable pathways in endometrial carcinoma
url: http://gdc.cancer.gov/about-data/publications/CPTAC-3_2023_2
date: '2026-03-20'
author: Charlotte Sackett (Federation/Google)
feed_url: https://gdc.cancer.gov/rss.xml
---
Proteogenomic insights suggest druggable pathways in endometrial carcinoma CPTAC Charlotte Sack… Fri, 03/20/2026 - 14:26 CPTAC Cell . Volume 41 , Issue 9: p. 1586-1605.e15, 11 Sep 2023 10.1016/j.ccell.2023.07.007 We characterized a prospective endometrial carcinoma (EC) cohort containing 138 tumors and 20 enriched normal tissues using 10 different omics platforms. Targeted quantitation of two peptides can predict antigen processing and presentation machinery activity, and may inform patient selection for immunotherapy. Association analysis between MYC activity and metformin treatment in both patients and cell lines suggests a potential role for metformin treatment in non-diabetic patients with elevated MYC activity. PIK3R1 in-frame indels are associated with elevated AKT phosphorylation and increased sensitivity to AKT inhibitors. CTNNB1 hotspot mutations are concentrated near phosphorylation sites mediating pS45-induced degradation of β-catenin, which may render Wnt-FZD antagonists ineffective. Deep learning accurately predicts EC subtypes and mutations from histopathology images, which may be useful for rapid diagnosis. Overall, this study identified molecular and imaging markers that can be further investigated to guide patient stratification for more precise treatment of EC. Instructions for Data Download Open Access Data Download the appropriate manifest file from the publication page Use the manifest file to download data using the GDC Data Transfer Tool (DTT) or the GDC API GDC DTT ( Download , User's Guide ) GDC API ( User’s Guide ) Controlled Access Data Download the appropriate manifest file from the publication page Download a token from the GDC Data Portal GDC Data Portal ( Launch , User’s Guide ) Use the manifest file and token to download data using the GDC DTT or the GDC API GDC DTT ( Download , User’s Guide ) GDC API ( User’s Guide ) For assistance, please contact the GDC Help Desk: support@nci-gdc.datacommons.io .
