---
title: Histopathologic and proteogenomic heterogeneity reveals features of clear cell
  renal cell carcinoma aggressiveness
url: http://gdc.cancer.gov/about-data/publications/CPTAC-3_2023_1
date: '2026-03-20'
author: Charlotte Sackett (Federation/Google)
feed_url: https://gdc.cancer.gov/rss.xml
---
Histopathologic and proteogenomic heterogeneity reveals features of clear cell renal cell carcinoma aggressiveness CPTAC Charlotte Sack… Fri, 03/20/2026 - 14:24 CPTAC Cell . Volume 41 , Issue 1: p. 139-163.e17, 9 Jan 2023 10.1016/j.ccell.2022.12.001 Clear cell renal cell carcinomas (ccRCCs) represent ∼75% of RCC cases and account for most RCC-associated deaths. Inter- and intratumoral heterogeneity (ITH) results in varying prognosis and treatment outcomes. To obtain the most comprehensive profile of ccRCC, we perform integrative histopathologic, proteogenomic, and metabolomic analyses on 305 ccRCC tumor segments and 166 paired adjacent normal tissues from 213 cases. Combining histologic and molecular profiles reveals ITH in 90% of ccRCCs, with 50% demonstrating immune signature heterogeneity. High tumor grade, along with BAP1 mutation, genome instability, increased hypermethylation, and a specific protein glycosylation signature define a high-risk disease subset, where UCHL1 expression displays prognostic value. Single-nuclei RNA sequencing of the adverse sarcomatoid and rhabdoid phenotypes uncover gene signatures and potential insights into tumor evolution. In vitro cell line studies confirm the potential of inhibiting identified phosphoproteome targets. This study molecularly stratifies aggressive histopathologic subtypes that may inform more effective treatment strategies. Instructions for Data Download Open Access Data Download the appropriate manifest file from the publication page Use the manifest file to download data using the GDC Data Transfer Tool (DTT) or the GDC API GDC DTT ( Download , User's Guide ) GDC API ( User’s Guide ) Controlled Access Data Download the appropriate manifest file from the publication page Download a token from the GDC Data Portal GDC Data Portal ( Launch , User’s Guide ) Use the manifest file and token to download data using the GDC DTT or the GDC API GDC DTT ( Download , User’s Guide ) GDC API ( User’s Guide ) For assistance, please contact the GDC Help Desk: support@nci-gdc.datacommons.io .
