---
title: A proteogenomic portrait of lung squamous cell carcinoma
url: http://gdc.cancer.gov/about-data/publications/CPTAC-3_2021_4
date: '2026-03-20'
author: Charlotte Sackett (Federation/Google)
feed_url: https://gdc.cancer.gov/rss.xml
---
A proteogenomic portrait of lung squamous cell carcinoma CPTAC Charlotte Sack… Fri, 03/20/2026 - 14:21 CPTAC Cell . Volume 184 , Issue 16: p. 4348-4371.e40, 5 Aug 2021 10.1016/j.cell.2021.07.016 Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) remains a leading cause of cancer death with few therapeutic options. We characterized the proteogenomic landscape of LSCC, providing a deeper exposition of LSCC biology with potential therapeutic implications. We identify NSD3 as an alternative driver in FGFR1-amplified tumors and low-p63 tumors overexpressing the therapeutic target survivin. SOX2 is considered undruggable, but our analyses provide rationale for exploring chromatin modifiers such as LSD1 and EZH2 to target SOX2-overexpressing tumors. Our data support complex regulation of metabolic pathways by crosstalk between post-translational modifications including ubiquitylation. Numerous immune-related proteogenomic observations suggest directions for further investigation. Proteogenomic dissection of CDKN2A mutations argue for more nuanced assessment of RB1 protein expression and phosphorylation before declaring CDK4/6 inhibition unsuccessful. Finally, triangulation between LSCC, LUAD, and HNSCC identified both unique and common therapeutic vulnerabilities. These observations and proteogenomics data resources may guide research into the biology and treatment of LSCC. Instructions for Data Download Open Access Data Download the appropriate manifest file from the publication page Use the manifest file to download data using the GDC Data Transfer Tool (DTT) or the GDC API GDC DTT ( Download , User's Guide ) GDC API ( User’s Guide ) Controlled Access Data Download the appropriate manifest file from the publication page Download a token from the GDC Data Portal GDC Data Portal ( Launch , User’s Guide ) Use the manifest file and token to download data using the GDC DTT or the GDC API GDC DTT ( Download , User’s Guide ) GDC API ( User’s Guide ) For assistance, please contact the GDC Help Desk: support@nci-gdc.datacommons.io .
